---
post_visible: true
status: draft
title: Design Workshop – Project Posters
subtitle: A visual summary of my exploration.
slug: 2015-11-23-design-workshop-project-posters
custom_slug: design-workshop-project-posters
date: '2015-11-23'
author: Nate Butler
primary_tag: design
tags:
  - design
  - project
show_thumbnail: true
post_images: >-
  https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/60453108a750bf32c24d79eb/604de5143b8992859975b6b3_Poster-Book.jpg;
  https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/60453108a750bf32c24d79eb/604de5144fc50cc4a9d7642a_Poster-Book2.jpg;
  https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/60453108a750bf32c24d79eb/604de5145984fff81fd50609_Poster-Book3.jpg;
  https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/60453108a750bf32c24d79eb/604de5142170133c3311c611_Poster-Book4.jpg;
  https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/60453108a750bf32c24d79eb/604de51594532bdf9baae712_Poster-Book5.jpg
---
<p>After I wrapped up my period of deep exploration I wrote up some of what I&nbsp;discovered and created these posters.</p><p>Poster text:</p><h2>1. Design = Making</h2><p><br></p><h3><strong><em>WHAT IS CUUUBIC?</em></strong></h3><p>It is a project about exploring new techniques and ways of making. Rather than starting with a problem and trying to solve it, I chose a concept and started making things and exploring to find what I could discover. It was a very freeing process.</p><p><br></p><h3><strong>Why CUUUBIC?</strong></h3><p>From the beginning I started working with voxels, which is a 3D pixel, or a cube. I needed a simple name to categorize everything under, so I thought it was suitable.</p><p><br></p><h3><strong>What was the work made in?</strong></h3><p>I experimented with quite a few technologies, but the primary ones used were Photoshop, Illustrator, Blender, Maya and a program called MagicaVoxel.</p><p><br></p><h3><em>Making to find a problem (and yourself.)</em></h3><p><br></p><p>Design as making is the idea of finding a problem through exploration, rather than starting with a problem using it to design a solution. Starting from a pre-existing problem may limit exploration, whereas starting right from making makes it easier to explore without the burden of fitting a solution. The conclusions found through making can be fluid, changing as further making brings to light new ideas. The process of making work can become the work itself. Through creating a body of work you can begin to discover meaning and a voice.<br></p><p>A designer creates value by making work. The quality of the work will be judged by individuals and the design community as a whole, but good or bad each piece of work builds on who the designer is as a whole. The value mentioned here isn’t monetary value or how good the design is, it is the work’s place in the voice of the designer overall.<br></p><h2>2. The Project</h2><p>	</p><p>	Step into a world of intense color and imagination gone wild. Cuuubic is an exploration of color and space and the relationship between 3D objects. The work goes beyond a generated image and takes the viewer on a journey through the beautiful spaces that color, light and material generate when interacting. Shadow and reflection amplify these spaces, often creating textures or colors completely different than the original objects have. The project focused on exploration and design as a process. Exploration wasn’t limited to only creating visual work, but exploring a vast amount of tools, using varied techniques and experimenting with the possibilities of materials, the way the light moves, and the way reflections interact. Not every avenue taken was successful but the failures lead the way to a process that created many visually stunning results. In employing a wide and deep process I hoped to discover a voice that would resonate with both myself and the audience. Through sharing my work with others I’ve become that guy that makes art with cubes and things, which speaks to the voice that I’ve begun to create.</p><p><em>	</em>The work can be described as imagination gone wild (but not that wild.) It explores color and space and the relationship between objects. The interesting part of the work goes beyond just the image generated. It is the play between the objects, materials and reflections. Shadows and reflections form that bring out new color and shapes created by the interaction of materials and light. The length of the project was short, so I focused my exploration on exploring those interactions. Through sharing my work with others I’ve become that makes art with cubes and things, which I think speaks to the idea of making being part of defining a voice. The work matters because it shows the results of my making and research, a step toward creating a voice and exploration into a territory of design I have not stepped before.<br></p><h2>3. Selfish Design</h2><p><br></p><p>	<em>Or how the project became personal without it meaning to.</em><br></p><h2>4. Complexity vs Impact</h2><p>	</p><p>	<em>MORE COMPLEX DOESN’T MEAN MORE EFFECTIVE</em></p><p><br></p><p><em>	</em>I started this project wanting to explore the concept of worlds, either digital or imaginary. Something that doesn’t exist in our own world, beyond what we see in our everyday lives, like an alternate reality. I spent a lot of time working with more realistic (non-abstract) imagery like landscapes, but I found they took a long time to create a single piece, which stopped me from creating work rapidly and exploring multiple ideas. The also needed to feel believable, which changed the type of reaction the audience had when viewing them. By working with simple shapes like cubes and rectangles I could build a variety of simple to moderately complex environments very quickly, which allows time to explore in the rendering phase, which is usually where the magic happens.</p><p><em>	</em>The joy of working in 3D tools versus traditional tools like Photoshop or Illustrator is that the compositions can be rotated and manipulated in 3D, which often returns interesting and unexpected results. This process greatly aids discovery through making. I would love to return to making more complex pieces, as I think they are great at communicating a specific feeling, but for now the time investment wouldn’t allow me to work as effectively<br></p><h2>5. Tools are just tools</h2><p>	</p><p>	<em>Learning new things is great but can get in the way of making.</em><br></p><h2>6. Who came before you?</h2><p><br></p><p>	<em>Finding others who have done work similar to yours can help you understand where your work belongs.</em><br></p><h2>7. What is the message? (What did I find?)</h2><p><br></p><p>	<em>Making is good, but making for a reason is better.</em></p><p><br></p><p>I started exploring if I could discover a connection between color and an observer’s emotional response. I examined topics like how emotion and color are related, what kind of emotions certain kinds of colors gave off, and if people reacted to the same piece differently. From my observations different color schemes give off very different feels. Softer colors and materials give a calm, warm and soft feeling. Darker colors and reflective materials in dark light give off cooler and more serious emotion. Dull colors and rough textures feel old and worn, uninspired and even depressing. The theme of connecting color and emotion seemed very obvious to me, and without testing against users or doing additional research to improve upon this theory I wasn’t going to make much progress with it. I realized that I was still in the early phases on my exploration, and likely should not have taken such an open-ended approach with a project that has such a short deadline. <br>As I continued making I began to notice details that were not planned, but became the central themes to the work. Details like a new color being created in a reflection, or two shapes combining because of the perseptive the image is rendered at. These “happy accidents” became the focus of my project as further pursued the interaction in the spaces between the colors and shapes I had chosen. In my most recent work I’ve tried to continue to explore these interactions and create work that would allow me to share them clearly. I believe that with time for further exploration I could isolate more clearly the message I want to convey with these pieces, but for now I continue to explore and create in hope of a revelation.<br></p><h2>8. Don’t give up on an idea before you have made anything.</h2><p><br></p><p>	<em>The Blank Canvas Effect can be terrifying, don’t let it stop you for creating.</em></p><p><br></p><p>	“One of the things that I think holds me back is a fear of creating or writing things that are bad. Once something is made it feels so permanent, and that is terrifying to me.”</p><p><br></p>