---
post_visible: true
status: published
title: The Impostor Inside
subtitle: >-
  Everyone has felt that creeping feeling. The feeling that you just couldn’t
  possibly belong. That somehow you are here by mistake.
slug: 2016-02-09-the-impostor-inside
custom_slug: the-impostor-inside
date: '2016-02-09'
author: Nate Butler
primary_tag: editorial
tags:
  - editorial
featured: true
show_thumbnail: true
---
<p><em>Chapter One —</em></p><p><em>Everyone has felt that creeping feeling. The feeling that you just couldn’t possibly belong. That somehow you are here by mistake. It’s terrifying because it feels </em><strong><em>true</em></strong><em>.</em></p><p>There is a voice inside of me. One that constantly tells me that I don’t belong. The truth is, sometimes I believe that voice.</p><p>The impostor is there to remind me of the things I’m afraid to say. <em>You are not a real designer. You just got lucky. You are not as talented as your peers.</em> Even while I read stories of many great people who have struggled with Impostor Syndrome, I wonder if I can really compare my feelings to what their experiences.</p><p>My struggles with self value make me feel like I’m not meant to be here.</p><p>In my early years of post-secondary education I struggled greatly with Impostor Syndrome. I didn’t enjoy my classes as I felt like I was learning more on my own, and yet, I saw the skill gap between my friends and I widen. That gap became a chasm. I no longer belonged, and missed out on many opportunities.</p><p>I was afraid to apply to internships, and unwilling to leave my job to search for something more challenging. I was afraid I was already working over my level and would not be able to find something else. I didn’t seek mentorship because I feared that my lack of skills would be exposed.</p><p><em>Afraid, afraid, afraid.</em></p><h2>The crippling fear that impostor syndrome brings can leave you in a hole that feels like you just can’t get out of.</h2><p>Well — I’m here to tell you that there is hope. You are <strong>not</strong> an impostor.</p><p>You did not end up here by accident.</p><p>You don’t have to give in to the voice in your head, and here is how you are going to prove it:</p><ul><li><strong>Trust others. </strong><em>Trust that they know what they are doing. You were hired for this job for a reason. You made it into that school for a reason. By doubting yourself you are doubting everyone involved in the process. And for the people that trusted you, create something good!</em></li><li><strong>Break the cycle. </strong><em>Every time you feel like you don’t belong reflect on your accomplishments. Tell yourself that you do belong, and that you are here for a reason. Take joy in finding what that reason is and working towards accomplishing it.</em></li><li><strong>Challenge yourself</strong>.<em> Don’t shy away from a problem or learning a skill because it takes you out of your comfort zone. You deserve to contribute. Let the world know what you want to say.</em></li><li><strong>Confide in others. </strong><em>You might be surprised at how many people feel the same way. Encourage each other. Sometimes simply verbalizing your thoughts can help you see things differently.</em></li><li><strong>Be confident. </strong><em>Don’t place your value in other’s opinions of you. Even the positive opinions of others can cripple your self confidence. Julie Zhou said it best in her article </em><a href="https://medium.com/the-year-of-the-looking-glass/the-imposter-syndrome-9e23e2326d88#.aecfyy60n">The Impostor Syndrome</a>: <em>“Experience makes anything look easy, but insecurities never fully disappear… [however] it gets easier. You start trusting yourself. You’re an imposter less and less, and you’re yourself more and more.”</em></li></ul><p>When the voice inside you starts whispering, remember that you are here for a reason. You were not chosen by mistake.</p><p>You worked hard, struggled long and now you have made it to the place you belong.</p><p><br></p><p>‍</p>