---
post_visible: true
status: published
title: Make! Make! Make!
subtitle: There is a universe of brilliant ideas locked inside the mind.
slug: 2016-02-29-make-make-make
custom_slug: make-make-make
date: '2016-02-29'
author: Nate Butler
primary_tag: editorial
tags:
  - editorial
show_thumbnail: true
---
<p><em>Chapter Three —</em></p><p>There is a universe of brilliant ideas locked inside the mind: The next billion dollar product, a cure to cancer, or even the newest experience that makes a life a little easier. But those ideas are useless if they remain inside.</p><p>In high school I studied journalism quite extensively. In my junior year I headed yearbook production as Editor-in-Chief and did the layout for the majority of the school’s newspaper. At some point between the start of my senior year and graduation, however, I decided not to pursue journalism, but design. Throughout my high school career, I made a lot of things. When entering university, however, I shifted my focus creating to learning.</p><p>I spent all my time spare time discovering. I learned HTML &amp; CSS, I followed all the latest designs on Dribbble and coded my own widgets on Codepen. If there was a new technology I was probably digging into it to learn how it worked. I thought I had become an expert in many things. It felt great to know so much, and to hold the attention of my peers. But as I started seeing people who knew less than me produce better work, I was stunned. That’s when I realized I was missing something.</p><p>I was satisfied with learning <em>how</em> to make things, but never actually made anything.</p><p>Yes, now I could write code in 10 software languages, create games in JS, Unity and Unreal, work in multiple 3D softwares and can build with Arduino and Pi, but what do I have to show for all of these things? Not a whole lot of anything. I’m not suggesting that learning is not important, but taking the next step to making is equally important.</p><p>Don’t fall into the same trap that I did.</p><p>Get out there, stop thinking and just <strong>make something</strong>.</p><p>Make something to show friends, family, coworkers and even people on the street.</p><p>Ideas don’t have to change the world. If they do, that’s terrific, but in the meantime, learning happens. Every mockup created, and every idea brainstormed is another step of the journey.</p><p>Keep making until there’s an idea to fall in love with. Then keep making after that. Teach others how to make, so that the next generation won’t miss this important lesson either.</p><p>Don’t just make things. Finish things. It doesn’t have to be an entire social media platform or an RPG-scale game, but finish what it, and package it so that it’s something to be proud of. Going half way doesn’t count.</p><p>With each completed project, skills improve. People start taking notice, and listening to your ideas. Not every idea will be a success, but don’t let that be a hindrance . Keep making, and don’t stop learning either. Finding balance between the two is the key to making great things.</p><p>So, get out there and make something great!</p>